[Music] Back
then, when the teacher came to the temple, the
facilities were very poor. There were no roads, so
every time he went, he had to split a reed to
walk. Then, when he got to the temple, there was no electricity, no
water, nothing at
all. It was very difficult. If we talk about the difficulties the
teacher faced, it was truly countless. When
he came here,
this Ba Vang temple was a very small place.
Only two or three people could stand during the ceremony, and the roof leaked. Back then, there was
no electricity, no
water, only oil lamps, just dim light. Where
the teacher slept, there was no rice, no food,
no money, nothing was
lacking. The teacher came to
this place, the land was sparse, the land was poor, and it was
difficult to build a shrine. The
teacher has been
here for several years
now. In the desolate night,
there is not a soul in sight.
Through the days, the teacher worked hard, working hard, working hard, bringing in
water and electricity,
but the teacher still had his
Dharma lectures. Even if there
were only a few
Buddhists, when they came to the teacher's place, he would give his Dharma lectures,
and then he would say, "My children..."
The teacher explained very clearly what kind of mind one should cultivate. He
said that the children must cultivate three kinds of minds: reverence, gratitude, and respect whenever they listened to his lectures on the virtues of parents. Honestly, I always
shed tears
thinking about the virtues of my father, mother,
grandparents, and ancestors. It was because of the
teacher that I understood the
immense virtues of my parents.
The teacher guided me to avoid harm, to
love everyone, regardless of rain, storms,
or circumstances.
That day, the teacher cooked rice in the
rain until 11 pm, but
he was so kind to the children. Even the
elderly people were there, and he
brought
down tonics, milk, and sweets, telling
everyone to eat to maintain their health to serve
the community on the eighth day of the Eight Precepts Retreat.
That is the greatest memory
I can never forget. The teacher's boundless
love always lived with my parents,
always lived a simple life, day and night, dedicated to
Buddhist work.  The teacher's guidance and teachings
are immeasurable; no
pen can fully express the teacher-student bond, the
teacher's love for the Buddhists, and for all
sentient beings. Thanks to the
teacher's guidance, our afflictions have disappeared.
Many teachers have abandoned
everything to teach at the National Economics University, giving up
everything
to save sentient beings like this.
Therefore, I am deeply grateful to the teacher. I truly remember him. I
don't know what more to say;
I am deeply moved and grateful. I vow to
follow the teacher and the Buddha's teachings for the rest of my life.
The teacher researches and teaches the
Dharma to everyone, so
that people can abandon evil and do good. All
good deeds
benefit sentient beings.
Therefore, the teachers do not act for their own benefit,
nor for themselves,
but for the sake of
sentient beings. The teacher's kindness and virtue are beyond
words. My parents
only gave birth to me,
but thanks to the
teacher's teachings...  For us, it's what we
call an ocean of wisdom,
allowing us to know the difference between suffering and
joy, and happiness, thanks to the Light of
Buddhist Dharma and the
compassion and kindness of our teacher. That's why
we are where we are today.
[Music]
When you want to express your gratitude to your teacher,
you must feel it through your thoughts and understanding of what he
has done
for everyone. You must think about the
benefits of his teachings, how they have transformed you, how they have nurtured you, indirectly cared for
you, and how they have
bestowed blessings upon you, both physically and mentally.
When you have such complete understanding, then
your words will have
a very profound meaning. No matter how profound the meaning,
even if someone speaks
ill of your teacher, it will never change
because I am a witness, I
am a beneficiary, I was there.
No matter how much you speak ill of him, you
cannot change it.  I
believe that this mindset gives rise to this kind of
concentration. But when we are
ungrateful, when we receive
many things from others without considering the
benefits, we will turn against them, we
will think wrongly. People are like that at any time.
Why do we remain steadfast with someone? It's
because we benefit from
them. She also said that from the beginning, when she met her
teacher, he guided her in her practice, and she
never harbored any unwholesome thoughts
towards him. No matter what anyone says, she would never have had an
unwholesome thought. That
was also a karmic connection when she sought out her
teacher. Why did she see the
past lives in which her teacher guided her? It's because in
all the lives he guided her, she was
grateful. She always thought that
without him, she wouldn't be where she is
today. So she always tells people that
without her teacher, she would just be a
working person, a
regular Buddhist who goes to the temple sometimes and
not other times, never
having the opportunity to be diligent.
Without her teacher, all those things...  All the
achievements she has today come from her
teacher. Without him,
her life would be meaningless,
meaningless, and would not benefit her or
anyone she has a connection with. Therefore, everything
she has today,
including this physical body,
is due to the merits she accumulated from her
teacher's teachings and practice in many previous lives.
This merit created the body she has
today. Thinking this way, it will never
change, for generations to come,
because the debt of gratitude is so deep.
She thinks that
her parents gave birth to her, but
this physical form was already there because of her karma and past actions.
Karma comes from her own evil deeds against others, while merit comes
from her teacher's teachings and guidance.
Therefore, she says that all her strengths
belong to her teacher, all the merits she learned from
him, and all her
weaknesses are due to him.  The flaws belong to her because she did
unwholesome work, while the
merits belong to
her teacher. Only with such thoughts can one receive blessings.
Thinking this way, the
gratitude is truly profound, and
one's vows are deeply felt. This allows one to
quickly filter out all unwholesome thoughts.
In all
matters, one's gratitude to one's parents stems
from one's own learning of the Dharma. It is through the
teachings of one's teachers that one can be grateful to
one's parents and continue to be grateful,
even if one has not yet escaped the cycle of reincarnation. As long as one is
still born into this world, one's
parents are determined by the teacher who
teaches one's practice.
Because if one is blessed, one's parents must also be
blessed. Therefore, one
chooses
one's parents in the next life; it is not without merit. One's
love for everyone and all
one's good vows also come from the teacher,
even though there is Buddha.  But
I still learned through my teacher, not from
Buddha. My
teacher is someone who studied Buddhist teachings and taught
me those teachings. Only then can I
understand and act accordingly. Without a
teacher, you wouldn't be able to do it. So the distance
between me and Buddha is the teacher in the middle, the
guide, the one leading me. It's
not like I have to come to Buddha on my own. That's
not it. Therefore, as a
human being, I must be grateful to the person, the
teacher who guided me, the person who educated
me. Many people are willing to sacrifice their
lives for their teachers.
When I guide you in showing
gratitude, I will explain it this way: when you
think about something, when you
do something, you must
immediately turn your heart to gratitude. If it
weren't for this person, you wouldn't have achieved
this. You wouldn't have grown or matured.
That's
continuous gratitude, not just
once, but
continuously throughout your life. You see,
everyone who teaches...  But we all
become our teachers. We
must know how to be grateful. We must know
where we were born, where
our origins are. Towards
our parents, we must always be
filial. Towards our teachers, we
know that our teachers gave birth to us in
the past, and towards our parents, we must be
filial. Without our parents, we would
n't have a place to be born. Therefore, as
human beings, we must think a
lot. So, I will guide you on
what gratitude means. Gratitude is that we vow, for all eternity, to
abandon evil and do good, to
benefit sentient beings wherever we are
born, according to our teacher's vow. Our teacher's vow
is to attain
Buddhahood above and to save sentient beings below; that
is the greatest vow
we have. We wholeheartedly strive towards the
anniversary of our teacher's ordination. That is also the
practice of serving our teacher and repaying gratitude.
Because thanks to
our teacher, we have come to know the true Dharma
of the Buddha, to learn the Dharma, to discern the Dharma, and to
practice the Dharma to increase our wisdom.
We have repented for the mistakes
we have made.  We have created merit in the past to
improve ourselves by doing good deeds and
generating merit and blessings,
such as releasing animals, charity, offering alms to the monks, and practicing the
Bodhisattva path as instructed by our master. All
our merits originate from our master. We cultivate
more blessings in this life
and future lives. We respectfully express our
gratitude to our master through our
studies and Buddhist activities to
protect the Three Jewels, following in the footsteps of Master Hoang
Truyen. May the Buddha's teachings reach all corners of the world.
May we always be grateful to our
master,
oh master, oh master, forever grateful!
[Applause]
[Music] Oh
master
[Music]